\input texinfo.tex
@c %**start of header
@setfilename cmod.info
@include version.texi
@settitle cmod @value{VERSION}
@c %**end of header
@defcodeindex fi
@syncodeindex fi fn
@syncodeindex vr fn

@c Decisions:
@c
@c  1.  Write "cmod" (or "Cmod" at the beginning of a sentence).
@c
@c      Rationale: Cmod is the name of the package.  It is not a
@c      command.  (Actually, it is a command, but that command is not
@c      visible to the user and not documented).
@c
@c  2.  Write "@code{module}" when referring to the alias.
@c      
@c      Rationale: Although @code{module} is a shell alias and not a
@c      command, it can be used as a shell command, and should thus be
@c      written the same way.

@setchapternewpage odd
     
@ifinfo
This file documents cmod, which provides modularized initialization of
environment variables such as @code{$PATH}.

Copyright (C) 1998 Per Cederqvist.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.
     
@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
     
@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that the
sections entitled ``Copying'' and ``GNU General Public License'' are
included exactly as in the original, and provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.
     
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation
approved by the Free Software Foundation.

@end ifinfo

@dircategory Shells and utilities
@direntry
* Cmod: (cmod).                         Setting up your environment.
* module: (cmod)Invoking module.        Modifying your environment.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title Cmod
@subtitle A New Way to Set Your Path
@subtitle Version @value{VERSION}

@author Per Cederqvist

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1998 Per Cederqvist

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that the
sections entitled ``Copying'' and ``GNU General Public License'' are
included exactly as in the original, and provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.
     
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation
approved by the Free Software Foundation.

@end titlepage


@ifinfo
@node Top
@top Cmod

This manual documents cmod version @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* Introduction::                What is cmod good for?
* Initializing cmod::           How to get the @code{module} alias.
* Invoking module::             How to invoke the @code{module} alias.
* Module files::                Writing module files.
* Environment variables::       Environment variables used by cmod.
* Bugs::                        Reporting bugs in cmod.
* New releases::                How to download cmod.
* Function index::              Function, file and variable index.
* Concept index::               Concept index.
@end menu
@end ifinfo     

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction to cmod
@cindex cmod
@cindex introduction

So, you think that you know how to set your path?  You think that it is
as easy as putting something like this in your @file{.bashrc} file?

@example
export PATH=/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin
@end example

This manual documents an alternative way to set your @code{PATH} (and other
environment variables).  It may not be as simple as the above statement,
but it is in many ways more flexible.  Cmod allows system administrators
to provide a good default setup for users of a system, while at the same
time allowing the users to make alterations to the environment without
having to take on the entire burden of setting up the environment.

@cindex module file
Cmod introduces the concept of @dfn{module files}.  A module file
can alter the environment.  For instance, the module file @file{X11}
may add @file{/usr/X11/bin} to @code{PATH} and @file{/usr/X11/man} to
@code{MANPATH}.  A module file can also do certain other things, such as
load other module files--@file{default} may for instance be set up to
load the @file{X11}, @file{unix} and @file{user} modules, which in a
typical setup would add @file{/usr/X11/bin}, @file{/usr/bin:/bin} and
@file{$HOME/@var{arch}/bin} to @code{PATH}.

Cmod searches for module files in a list of directories, which can be
modified by the user.  A user can for instance prepend his own directory
of module files to the predefined list, and override module definitions
which he doesn't like.

@cindex modules, the ancestor of cmod
@cindex credit to modules
@cindex http://www.modules.org/
Cmod owes a lot, such as the "module" concept and some (but not all) of
the syntax of the @code{module} alias and module files, to
@code{modules} (see @url{http://www.modules.org/}).  Unlike
@code{modules}, cmod is implemented in a portable subset of C, and it is
self contained, which makes it very easy to install.  To unpack cmod,
compile it, and install the binaries should very seldom take more than
five minutes, and often considerably less.  (Writing good module files
that suit your environment is another matter.)


@node Initializing cmod
@chapter Initializing cmod

Before you can use @code{module}, you have to install it in your
environment.  How you do that depends on which shell you are using, and
whether you want to have full control over your environment or trust
your system administrator to provide a good default environment.

@menu
* Using system defaults::       Using @file{path.sh} or @file{path.csh}.
* Defining module::             Using @file{sh.init}, @file{csh.init}@dots{}
@end menu


@node Using system defaults
@section Using system defaults

@fiindex path.sh
@fiindex path.csh
Cmod provides two files named @file{path.sh} and @file{path.csh}.  They
are typically located in @file{/usr/local/etc/cmod/}, but the directory
can be specified at compile-time by giving the options @samp{--prefix}
or @samp{--sysconfdir} to @code{configure}.

These files will detect which shell you are actually using, and load the
appropriate initialization file (@pxref{Defining module}).  They will
also load the module @samp{default}, unless some module already has been
loaded into the environment.

If you use @code{sh}, @code{bash}, @code{zsh} or @code{ksh} you should
put this in one of your initialization files to enable cmod:

@example
. /usr/local/etc/cmod/path.sh
@end example

If you use @code{csh} or @code{tcsh}, you should put this in
@file{.cshrc} or @file{.tcshrc}:

@example
source /usr/local/etc/cmod/path.csh
@end example

After that point, @code{PATH} will be set to the default value provided
by your system administrator.  You can than add more modules using the
@code{module} alias.  The following example loads the @code{sysadm}
module.  The same syntax is used regardless of which shell you are
using.

@example
module add sysadm
@end example


@node Defining module
@section Defining module

@fiindex sh.init
@fiindex csh.init
@fiindex bash.init
@fiindex tcsh.init
@fiindex zsh.init
@fiindex ksh.init
If you want complete control over your environment, you can source one
of the following files instead of @file{path.sh} or @file{path.csh}:
@example
sh.init
csh.init
bash.init
tcsh.init
zsh.init
ksh.init
@end example

They are installed in the same directory as @file{path.sh} and
@file{path.csh} (@pxref{Using system defaults}).  They all define the
@code{module} alias in a way appropriate for the shell.  They will also
set @code{MODULEPATH}, unless it already was set.  They will not load
any module, so your init file will have to do that by itself.


@node Invoking module
@chapter Invoking module

Once cmod is initialized you can use it interactively or from shell
scripts.  This chapter lists the commands that are available.

@menu
* Adding modules::              Adding modules to your environment.
* Search path::                 Altering the cmod search path.
* Displaying information::      Displaying loaded and available modules.
@end menu


@node Adding modules
@section Adding modules

@findex add
@findex try-add
@findex rm
@findex load
@findex unload
@findex module add
@findex module try-add
@findex module rm
@findex module load
@findex module unload
@cindex loading a module
@cindex unloading a module
@cindex module, loading
@cindex module, unloading
@cindex adding a module
@cindex removing a module
@example
module add @samp{module}...
module try-add @samp{module}...
module rm @samp{module}...
module load @samp{module}...
module unload @samp{module}...
@end example

You can use @code{module add} to add one or more modules to your
environment.  The command will fail if the module cannot be found.  You
can add several modules with the same command.  @code{module load} is an
alias for @code{module add}.

If you want to load a module if it is available, use @code{module
try-add}.  It will silently ignore any attempt to load a module that
doesn't exist.  It can be handy to add @code{module try-add spice} to
your @file{.bashrc} file to add the @samp{spice} module whenever it is
present, but avoid complaints on systems where it doesn't exist.

Use @samp{module rm} to remove a module from your environment.  This
will parse the module file and do the opposite of what is said there.
For example, if the module file adds @file{/usr/local/bin} to your
@code{PATH} this command will remove @file{/usr/local/bin} from
@code{PATH}.  An attempt to remove a module that isn't present in your
environment will result in a warning message.  Depending on how the
module file is written it may sometimes be impossible to unload it.
This command does its best, but that is sometimes not enough.

@samp{module unload} is an alias for @code{module rm}.


@node Search path
@section Altering where modules are found

@findex use
@findex unuse
@findex module use
@findex module unuse
@cindex search path, altering
@cindex module search path, altering
@cindex altering the module search path
@cindex using a module directory
@cindex unusing a module directory
@cindex adding a directory to the search path
@cindex removing a directory from the search path
@vindex MODULEPATH@r{, altering with} module use
@example
module use @samp{dir}
module unuse @samp{dir}
@end example

@code{module use} will prepend @samp{dir} to the list of directories
that are searched for module files.  When writing a module file this is
equivalent to @samp{prepend-path MODULEPATH @samp{dir}}.

@code{module unuse} will remove @samp{dir} from the list.  When writing
a module file the same effect can be achieved with @samp{delete-path
MODULEPATH @samp{dir}}.


@node Displaying information
@section Displaying information to the user

@findex list
@findex avail
@findex --version
@findex --help
@findex module list
@findex module avail
@findex module --version
@findex module --help
@cindex list loaded modules
@cindex display loaded modules
@cindex loaded modules, listing
@cindex active modules, listing
@cindex modules, list loaded
@cindex list available modules
@cindex available module, listing
@cindex module, list available
@cindex version number, displaying
@cindex display cmod version number
@cindex cmod version number, displaying
@cindex help
@cindex display help
@cindex usage message
@example
module list
module avail
module --version
module --help
@end example

These commands display information to the user.  The format of the
output is designed so that it should be easy to read for a human.
Programs should not attempt to parse the output, since it may change
even in bug-fix releases of cmod.

@vindex LOADEDMODULES@r{, used by} module list
@samp{module list} lists the modules that are currently loaded.  The
environment variable @code{LOADEDMODULES} also contains this
information.

@vindex MODULEPATH@r{, affects} module avail
@samp{module avail} traverses all the directories in the current module
load path (which is held in @code{MODULEPATH}) and prints all the
modules that are available.  Modules that are loaded are preceded by a
plus sign, others by a minus sign.  This makes it easy to see at a
glance if there are some exiting new modules that you may wish to add to
your environment.

@samp{module --version} outputs the version number of cmod.
@samp{module --help} prints a few lines of help for the commands that
can be used interactively.


@node Module files
@chapter Writing module files

@cindex module file, writing
@findex modulefiles
A module is defined in a @dfn{module file}.  The module files are
typically installed in @file{/usr/local/etc/cmod/modulefiles}, but the
directory can be specified at compile-time by giving the options
@samp{--prefix} or @samp{--sysconfdir} to @code{configure}, or by
specifying @samp{moduledir=@var{location}} to @code{make} and @code{make
install}.

@menu
* Module syntax::               Syntax of module files.
* Directories::                 Using directories as module files.
* Altering the environment::    Commands that alter the environment.
@end menu


@node Module syntax
@section Syntax of module files.
@cindex syntax of module files
@cindex passes
@cindex module file parsing
@cindex parsing module files

The parsing is performed by three major components:

@itemize @bullet
@item 
The @dfn{preprocessor} performs variable lookup and shell escapes.

@item
The @dfn{tokenizer} receives a stream of characters from the
preprocessor.  It splits them into tokens, gather tokens until the end
of line, and feeds each line to the evaluator.  The tokenizer is also
responsible for comment removal.

@item
The @dfn{evaluator} receives one command at a time from the tokenizer.
It evaluates the command.
@end itemize

It is important to note that both the preprocessor and the tokenizer are
lazy; they always do as little as possible.  Whenever possible, a line
is evaluated by the evaluator before the next line is even parsed.  That
way, variable assignments made on one line can affect the preprocessor
directives on the next line.

@menu
* Preprocessor::                The preprocessor.
* Tokenizer::                   The tokenizer.
* Evaluator::                   The evaluator.
@end menu


@node Preprocessor
@subsection The preprocessor
@cindex preprocessor

@display
@flushright
Well I'm not sure
what I'm looking for
--- Garbage
@end flushright
@end display

The preprocessor looks for @samp{$} signs.  All other characters are passed
unmodified to the tokenizer.

@table @samp
@cindex quoting dollar signs
@cindex dollar sign, quoting
@cindex $, quoting
@item $$
Pass a literal @samp{$} sign to the tokenizer.

@item $@{@var{var}@}
Variable expansion.  See below.

@item $(@var{shellscript})
@cindex shell escape
@cindex shellscript
Evaluate @var{shellscript} in a subshell, and pass whatever the shell
script generates on stdout to the tokenizer.  The output is not examined
by the preprocessor.

If the shellscript exits with a non-zero exit status the module will be
aborted.  (You can easily circumvent this restriction by appending
@samp{; true} to the end of the shell script.)

@var{shellscript} may contain any character, including newline.  While
scanning for the terminating close-parenthesis @samp{)} the following
actions are performed, in order:

@cindex backslash substitution in shell escape
@table @samp
@cindex dollar, quoting in shell escape
@cindex $, quoting in shell escape
@item \$
Replaced by a dollar sign @samp{$}.

@item \)
Replaced by a right-parenthesis @samp{)}.

@cindex backslash, quoting in shell escape
@cindex \, quoting in shell escape
@item \\
Replaced by a single backslash @samp{\}.

@item \ newline
A backslash followed by a newline is removed.

@item \(
Replaced by a left-parenthesis @samp{(}.  This is not really necessary,
but this way, at least there is symmetry.

@item \ @var{c}
A backslash followed by any other character is an error.

@item $@{@var{var}@}
Variable expansion.  See below.

@item $ @var{c}
A dollar sign followed by any other character is an error, and will
cause the module to be aborted.

@end table

The resulting string is passed to @code{/bin/sh -c @var{string}} for
evaluation.  If the result contains a trailing newline it will be
removed.

@item $ @var{c}
A dollar sign followed by any other character is an error, and will
cause the module to be aborted.
@end table

@subsubsection Variable expansion
@cindex variable expansion
@cindex accessing variables in module files
@cindex environment variables, accessing
Variable expansion is modeled after the constructs found in
@file{/bin/sh}, but since the variable expansion is performed by cmod
the same syntax is used even if you are using @code{csh}.

@table @samp
@item $@{@var{var}@}
This is the simplest form.  It expands to the value of the environment
variable @var{var}.  (The value may be affected by commands that have
been evaluated on previous lines.)  The variable name @var{var} cannot
contain newlines or any of these characters: @samp{@{:-=?+}.  The value
of the variable may contain any character, and it isn't examined by the
preprocessor, but passed straight to the tokenizer (or used as a shell
command if the variable was used inside a shellscript construct).

The module will be aborted if the environment variable was unset.

@item $@{@var{var}:-@samp{string}@}
If the environment variable @var{var} is unset or empty, @samp{string}
is recursively sent through the preprocessor and the result is used
instead of @var{var}.  Otherwise, the value of the environment variable
@var{var} is used.

@item $@{@var{var}-@samp{string}@}
Similar to @samp{:-}, but test if @var{var} is unset instead of testing
if it is unset or empty.

@item $@{@var{var}:=@samp{string}@}
Similar to @samp{:-}, but if @samp{string} is used it is also assigned
to @var{var}.

@item $@{@var{var}=@samp{string}@}
Similar to @samp{:=}, but test if @var{var} is unset instead of testing
if it is unset or empty.

@item $@{@var{var}:+@samp{string}@}
If the environment variable @var{var} is unset or empty this expands to
the empty string.  Otherwise, @samp{string} is recursively sent through
the preprocessor and the result is used.

@item $@{@var{var}+@samp{string}@}
Similar to @samp{:+}, but test if @var{var} is unset instead of testing
if it is unset or empty.

@item $@{@var{var}:?@samp{string}@}
If the environment variable @var{var} is unset or empty @samp{string} is
recursively sent through the preprocessor, the result is printed to
stderr, and this module is aborted.  Otherwise, the value of the
environment variable @var{var} is used.

@item $@{@var{var}?@samp{string}@}
Similar to @samp{:?}, but test if @var{var} is unset instead of testing
if it is unset or empty.

@end table


@node Tokenizer
@subsection The tokenizer
@cindex tokenizer

The tokenizer is responsible for creating tokens from the character
stream it receives from the preprocessor.

@table @samp
@item \ newline
Each occurrence of a backslash character \ followed by a newline is
deleted.

@item " string "
@cindex quoted string
@cindex backslash substitution
A string within quotes @samp{"} is a token.  Any character, including
newlines, may be present in the string.  The following backslash
substitutions are performed within the string:

@table @samp
@item \"
Replaced by a quote.

@item \#
Replaced by a hashmark.

@item \n
Replaced by a newline.

@item \ space
Replaced by a space.

@cindex octal digits
@cindex special characters
@item \ @var{ddd}
@var{ddd} are three octal digits.  Replaced by the character they
represent.

@item \\
Replaced by a single backslash.

@item \ @var{c}
A backslash followed by any other character is an error.

@end table

@item token
@cindex token
A token is a sequence of any character except space, newline, tab, quote
@samp{"} or hash-mark @samp{#}.  The same backslash substitutions are
performed within a token as within a string.  (Thus, even the forbidden
characters may be inserted into a token.)

@item # comment newline
@cindex comment
Text from a hash through the end of the line is ignored as a comment.

@item horizontal whitespace
One or more horizontal whitespace character separates tokens.  Space and
tab are the only two characters that count as horizontal whitespace.

@item newline
The newline character separates lines.  As soon as the tokenizer
receives a complete line the tokens on the line will be passed to the
evaluator for evaluation.  (Note that leading and trailing horizontal
whitespace on a line is ignored.)

@end table


@node Evaluator
@subsection The evaluator
@cindex evaluator

The evaluator recognizes tokens, and evaluates them.  For instance, if
the first token is @samp{prepend-path} the evaluator expects two more
tokens: @var{variable} and @var{value}.

@cindex error handling
@cindex abort
@cindex module, abort loading of
If a command fails the module is aborted.  That means that the parsing
of the file stops, and the effects on the environment produced by any
command that had already been evaluated in this module file will be
undone.  Side effects (such as the output produced by @samp{module
--version}) can of course not be undone.

All cmod commands that can be used from the shell (such as @samp{module
add sysadm}) can also be used in module files.  @xref{Invoking module}.
In addition to those there are a few extra commands that alter the
environment; @pxref{Altering the environment}.


@node Directories
@section Using directories as module files
@cindex directory, using as module files
@cindex default module of subdirectory
@cindex versioned modules

All files in the directories on the module search path can be used as
modules.  You can also have directories that in turn contains module
files.  This feature can be used to provide several versions of a
module.

Say that your site has tree versions of Emacs installed: Emacs 19.30 in
@file{/sw/emacs-19.30}, Emacs 19.34 in @file{/sw/emacs-19.34} and Emacs
20.3 in @file{/sw/emacs-20.3}.  You could provide three modules named
@samp{emacs-19.30}, @samp{emacs-19.34} and @samp{emacs-20.3} to handle
the situation.

An alternative way would be to create the directory @file{emacs} and
populate it with three module files @file{19.30}, @file{19.34} and
@samp{20.3}.  You can then use @samp{emacs/19.34} as a module name.

@fiindex default
If you create a file named @file{default} in the @file{emacs} directory,
any attempt to load the module @samp{emacs} will actually load
@samp{emacs/default}.  By putting the line @code{module add emacs/19.34}
in @file{emacs/default} you can provide a default version; in that way
users that want a specific version of emacs can load that module file,
while other users can rely on the administrator to provide a stable
version of Emacs.

@cindex symbolic links
On systems that support symbolic links the file @file{emacs/default} can
be a symbolic link to the appropriate file to load.  Cmod understands
the symbolic link and will make the output of @code{module avail} look
nicer if the @samp{default} module in a subdirectory is a symbolic link.


@node Altering the environment
@section Altering the environment

There are several commands that can alter the value of environment
variables in different ways.

@cindex fragment
@cindex : used as fragment separator
@cindex colon-separated lists
@cindex path separator
@code{append-path}, @code{prepend-path} and @code{remove-path} treats
the value as a colon-separated list of fragments.  This convention is
often used; @code{MANPATH} is for instance a colon-separated list of
directories that the command @code{man} should look in when it searches
for man pages.

@menu
* append-path::                 Appending a directory to a path.
* prepend-path::                Prepending a directory to a path.
* remove-path::                 Removing a directory from a path.
* setenv::                      Setting a variable to a fixed value.
* unsetenv::                    Unsetting a variable.
@end menu


@node append-path
@subsection append-path: Appending a directory to a path

@cindex appending a fragment to a path
@cindex path, appending to
@cindex fragment, appending
@cindex component, appending
@findex append-path
@example
append-path @samp{var} @samp{path}
@end example

This command appends @samp{path} to the tail of @var{var}.  If @var{var}
already contained @samp{path} it will be left unmodified.


@node prepend-path
@subsection prepend-path: Prepending a directory to a path

@cindex prepending a fragment to a path
@cindex path, prepending to
@cindex fragment, prepending
@cindex component, prepending
@findex prepend-path
@example
prepend-path @samp{var} @samp{path}
@end example

This command prepends @samp{path} to the tail of @var{var}.  If @var{var}
already contained @samp{path} the old occurance will be removed, so the
net result is that the @samp{path} component is moved to the front of
@var{var}.


@node remove-path
@subsection prepend-path: Removing a directory from a path

@cindex removing a fragment to a path
@cindex path, removing parts of
@cindex fragment, removing
@cindex component, removing
@findex remove-path
@example
remove-path @samp{var} @samp{path}
@end example

This command removes all occurances of @samp{path} from @var{var}.
Nothing happens if @var{var} does not contain @samp{path}.


@node setenv
@subsection setenv: Setting a variable to a fixed value

@cindex setting an environment variable
@cindex variables, setting
@cindex environment variable, setting an
@findex setenv
@example
setenv @samp{var} @samp{value}
@end example

Set environment variable @var{var} to @samp{value}.


@node unsetenv
@subsection unsetenv: Clearing a variable

@cindex unsetting an environment variable
@cindex clearing an environment variable
@cindex variables, unsetting
@cindex environment variable, unsetting an
@findex unsetenv
@example
unsetenv @samp{var}
@end example

Unset the environment variable @var{var}.


@node Environment variables
@chapter Environment variables used by cmod

Cmod can be used to modify all environment variables.  This is a list of
the environment variables that cmod itself uses.

@table @code
@item MODULEPATH
@vindex MODULEPATH@r{, definition}
A colon-separated list of directories that should be searched for
modules.  You can use @code{module use} and @code{module unuse} to
modify this variable.

@item LOADEDMODULES
@vindex LOADEDMODULES@r{, definition}
A colon-separated list of loaded modules.
@end table


@node Bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs
@cindex reporting bugs
@cindex bugs, reporting

@display
@flushright
When I grow up
I'll be stable
--- Garbage
@end flushright
@end display

Bugs can be reported to ceder@@lysator.liu.se or via the LysLysKOM
conference "cmod (-) modules gjort 
@ifinfo
rätt".
@end ifinfo
@iftex
r@"a{}tt".
@end iftex

Ideally, a bug report should provide:

@itemize @bullet
@item
A short description of the bug: how it can be reproduced, what behavior
you expected, and what happened instead.

@item
A test case of the same type as can be found in the @file{testsuite}
directory in the cmod distribution that demonstrates the bug.

@item
A patch that fixes the bug.

@item
Written and PGP-signed permission to release the code under GNU General
Public License version 2 or later.

@end itemize

You don't have to provide all of the above to report a bug, however.
If there is a problem with cmod I want to know about it so that it can
be fixed.


@node New releases
@chapter New releases
@cindex new releases
@cindex home page for cmod
@cindex cmod home page
@cindex web address to cmod
@cindex email address to cmod
@cindex getting in touch
@cindex feedback
@cindex LysKOM
@cindex http://www.lysator.liu.se/~ceder/cmod/
@cindex announcements of new releases

@display
@flushright
I'm waiting,
I'm waiting,
for You.
--- Garbage
@end flushright
@end display

@url{http://www.lysator.liu.se/~ceder/cmod/} contains the cmod home
page.  New releases of cmod are announced there.  They are also
announced in the LysLysKOM conference "cmod (-) modules gjort
@ifinfo
rätt".
@end ifinfo
@iftex
r@"a{}tt".
@end iftex

@cindex version numbers
@cindex snapshot releases
@cindex stable releases
@cindex bug-fix releases
@cindex releases, different kinds of
There are two kind of cmod releases: regular releases and snapshot
releases.  A regular releases has received a fair amount of testing, and
the documentation and supplementary files such as @file{NEWS} and
@file{README} should be up to date.  They are believed to be stable, and
all known bugs are documented when they are made.  The version number
for a regular release consists of two decimal numbers separated by a
point.  Example: 1.0.

Snapshot releases, on the other hand, are made whenever there has been
some significant development on cmod.  They receive minimal testing, at
best, and the only file you can count on to be up-to-date in them is
@file{ChangeLog}.  If you want to be on the cutting edge of cmod
development you should use snapshot releases, but otherwise you are
better of sticking to the regular releases.

The name of a snapshot release is based on the previous regular
release, with an appended @samp{.post.@var{N}}, where @var{N} is a
sequence number.  So, for example, the third snapshot release after
cmod version 1.0 was named 1.0.post.3.

In the future, there may also be a third kind of release: bug fix
releases.  If 1.0 should contain a serious enough error I might release
a fix.  Bug fix releases are as stable as regular releases.  They have
version numbers such as 1.0.1.


@node Function index
@unnumbered Function, file and variable index
     
@printindex fn
     
@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index
     
@printindex cp
     
@contents
@bye
